_snippets/gcp_image_classification_tutorial.mdx, before:

All the code for this tutorial can be found on [github](https://github.com/launchflow/buildflow-gcp-image-classification); we will be walking through this repo step by step.


## Define your Application

Your application is defined by the presence of a `buildflow.yaml` [file](/buildflow/programming-guide/buildflow-yaml) in the root of your application.
This is created when we use the [BuildFlow CLI](/buildflow/reference/cli/init) to create a new project, and doesn't need to be updated unless you need to add something.

Our yaml file defines the following:
- [**project**](/buildflow/programming-guide/buildflow-yaml#project): the name of our project; this can be updated to any string containing lower-case letters and hyphens
- [**pulumi_config**](/buildflow/programming-guide/buildflow-yaml#pulumi-configure): our pulumi configuration; here we say we have one stack that is stored locally
- [**entry_point**](/buildflow/programming-guide/buildflow-yaml#entry-point): defines how our application is run

```yaml
project: buildflow-gcp-image-classification-walkthrough
pulumi_config:
  pulumi_home: .buildflow/_pulumi
  stacks:
    - name: local
      backend_url: file://.buildflow/_pulumi/local
entry_point: main:app
```

## Initialize your Flow

We define our flow in `main.py` this is the entry point we defined in our `buildflow.yaml` file. `app = Flow(...)` creates our [Flow object](/buildflow/programming-guide/flows) which is a container for all of our business logic and resources.
You'll notice we call a couple methods on our flow object.

- **manage**: this method marks a [primitive](/buildflow/primitives) as being managed. Meaning it can be created, updated, and destroyed by buildflow.
- **add_service**: attaches a service to our flow. A service is a container of [endpoints](/buildflow/programming-guide/endpoints), our service will be used for allowing users to upload images to our application.
- **add_consumer**: attaches a [consumer](/buildflow/programming-guide/consumers) to our flow. A consumer allows us to asynchronously process image uploads meaning it won't block the users request!


```python
from buildflow import Flow, FlowOptions

from image_classification import primitives
from image_classification.processors.consumer import classify_image
from image_classification.processors.service import service
from image_classification.settings import env

app = Flow(
    flow_options=FlowOptions(
        gcp_service_account_info=env.gcp_service_account_info, stack=env.env.value
    )
)
app.manage(
    primitives.bucket,
    primitives.dataset,
    primitives.table,
    primitives.file_change_stream,
)
app.add_service(service)
app.add_consumer(classify_image)
```

## Create your Primitives

In `primitives.py` we define all of the [primitives](/buildflow/programming-guide/primitives) used by our applications. Primitives are resources that a processor may read from, write to, or reference.

<Tip>
    You may have noticed these same primitives were passed into `app.manage` in `main.py` this means they will be created when you run `buildflow run` for the first time.
</Tip>

We define 4 primitives here:

- **bucket**: a [GCS bucket](/buildflow/primitives/gcp/gcs) where we will upload user images to.
- **file_change_stream**: a [GCS File Change Stream](/buildflow/primitives/gcp/gcs_file_change_stream) which sets up notifications for when a file is uploaded to our bucket. This is what triggers our image upload model to be called.
- **dataset**: a [BigQuery dataset](/buildflow/primitives/gcp/bigquery#bigquerydataset), this is a container for our BigQuery table.
- **table**: a [BigQuery table](/buildflow/primitives/gcp/bigquery#bigquerytable) where we will store our image classifications results. 

```python
from buildflow.io.gcp import (
    GCSFileChangeStream,
    BigQueryTable,
    GCSBucket,
    BigQueryDataset,
)

from image_classification.settings import env
from image_classification.schemas import ImageClassificationRow

bucket = GCSBucket(
    project_id=env.gcp_project_id,
    bucket_name=f"{env.gcp_project_id}-image-classification",
).options(force_destroy=True)
file_change_stream = GCSFileChangeStream(gcs_bucket=bucket)

dataset = BigQueryDataset(
    project_id=env.gcp_project_id,
    dataset_name="buildflow_image_classification_walkthrough",
)
table = BigQueryTable(dataset=dataset, table_name="image_classification").options(
    schema=ImageClassificationRow
)
```

## Add your Dependencies

In `dependencies.py` we set up [dependencies](/buildflow/programming-guide/dependencies) that will be used by our endpoints and consumer. Dependencies allow us to precompute and share code between processors. In our case we want to load the model when we start our application before any data is processed.

We do this by defining the `ModelDep` class and add the decorator `@dependency(scope=Scope.REPLICA)` which annotates the class as a dependency that should be created before a [replica](/buildflow/concepts#replicas) starts to process data.

We also define a `BucketDep` which is a [bucket dependency](/buildflow/dependencies/bucket) that allows us to connect to the bucket associated with our bucket primitive we defined in [primitives.py](/buildflow/tutorial#image-classification-primitives-py)

```python
import os

from buildflow.dependencies import dependency, Scope
from buildflow.dependencies.bucket import BucketDependencyBuilder
from imageai.Classification import ImageClassification

from image_classification.primitives import bucket


@dependency(scope=Scope.REPLICA)
class ModelDep:
    def __init__(self) -> None:
        self.execution_path = os.path.dirname(os.path.realpath(__file__))
        self.prediction = ImageClassification()
        self.prediction.setModelTypeAsMobileNetV2()
        self.prediction.setModelPath("mobilenet_v2-b0353104.pth")
        self.prediction.loadModel()


BucketDep = BucketDependencyBuilder(bucket)
```

## Add your Service

In `service.py` we define our actual endpoints that will be called by our users.  First we create a service with `service = Service(...)` then attach endpoints to functions using `@service.endpoint(...)`.

<Tip>
    Remember we attached our service to our flow in `main.py` with `app.add_service`
</Tip>

We define three endpoints here:

- **index**: this endpoint returns a simple HTML page that allows users to upload images.
- **image_upload**: this endpoint allows users to upload an image; then we upload them to our remote bucket. It takes in an [UploadFile](/buildflow/programming-guide/endpoints#other-request-types) which is a file that has been uploaded by a user. We also take in the `bucket_dep` dependency we defined earlier. This allows us to upload the file to our bucket using the [Google Cloud Storage client library](https://cloud.google.com/python/docs/reference/storage/latest/google.cloud.storage.blob.Blob#google_cloud_storage_blob_Blob_upload_from_file).
- **image_upload_results**: this endpoint returns a simple HTML page that displays the results of our image classification model. It does this by querying our BigQuery table and then rendering the results as a table.

```python
from buildflow import Service
from buildflow.requests import UploadFile
from buildflow.responses import FileResponse, HTMLResponse
from google.cloud import bigquery
import pandas as pd

from image_classification.dependencies import BucketDep
from image_classification.primitives import table

service = Service(service_id="image-classification")


@service.endpoint("/", method="GET")
def index():
    return FileResponse("image_classification/processors/index.html")


@service.endpoint("/image-upload", method="POST")
def image_upload(image_file: UploadFile, bucket_dep: BucketDep):
    blob = bucket_dep.bucket.blob(image_file.filename)
    blob.upload_from_file(image_file.file)


def generate_inner_table(row):
    inner_df = pd.DataFrame.from_records(row["classifications"])
    return inner_df.to_html(classes="table-auto", index=False, border=1).replace(
        "\n", ""
    )


@service.endpoint("/image-upload-results", method="GET")
def image_upload_results():
    bigquery_client = bigquery.Client()
    results = bigquery_client.query(f"SELECT * FROM {table.primitive_id()}")
    df = results.to_dataframe()
    df["classifications"] = df.apply(generate_inner_table, axis=1)

    return HTMLResponse(
        df.to_html(
            classes="m-5 border-spacing-2 border-collapse border border-slate-500 table-auto".split(
                " "
            ),
            escape=False,
        ).replace("\n", "")
    )
```

## Add Async Processing

`consumer.py` is where we send our images through the model. We do this by attaching the `@consumer` decorator to our 
`classify_image` function.

<Tip>
    Remember we attached our service to our flow in `main.py` with `app.add_consumer`
</Tip>

Our consumer function takes in two arguments:
- **file_event: GCSFileChangeEvent** - this is the input to our consumer that is generate when ever an image is uploaded to our bucket (whenever our endpoint is called).
- **model: ModelDep** - this is the dependency we defined in [dependency.py](/buildflow/tutorial#image-classification-dependencies-py) that loaded the model.

```python
import datetime
import os
import tempfile

from buildflow import consumer
from buildflow.types.gcp import GCSFileChangeEvent

from image_classification.dependencies import ModelDep
from image_classification.primitives import table, file_change_stream
from image_classification.schemas import Classification, ImageClassificationRow


@consumer(source=file_change_stream, sink=table)
def classify_image(
    file_event: GCSFileChangeEvent, model: ModelDep
) -> ImageClassificationRow:
    with tempfile.TemporaryDirectory() as td:
        file_path = os.path.join(td, file_event.file_path)
        # Download the bytes to a local file that can be sent through the model
        with open(file_path, "wb") as f:
            f.write(file_event.blob)
        predictions, probabilities = model.prediction.classifyImage(
            file_path, result_count=5
        )
    classifications = []
    for predicition, probability in zip(predictions, probabilities):
        classifications.append(Classification(predicition, probability))
    row = ImageClassificationRow(
        image_name=file_event.file_path,
        upload=datetime.datetime.utcnow().isoformat(),
        classifications=classifications,
    )
    print(row)
    return row
```

## Other Files

Some other files we didn't mention that are also in the repo:
- **settings.py** - this loads in a `.env` file for configuring our environment variables
- **schemas.py** - defines our API schemas for request and respones
- **requirements.txt** - defines our python dependencies
- **index.html** - a simple HTML page for uploading images


## Running The Application

<Snippet file="gcp_image_classification.mdx" />

Commit message:

finish launchflow cloud start on buildflow docs

_snippets/gcp_image_classification_tutorial.mdx, after:

All the code for this tutorial can be found on [github](https://github.com/launchflow/buildflow-gcp-image-classification); we will be walking through this repo step by step.


## Define your Application

Your application is defined by the presence of a `buildflow.yaml` [file](/buildflow/programming-guide/buildflow-yaml) in the root of your application.
This is created when we use the [BuildFlow CLI](/buildflow/reference/cli/init) to create a new application, and doesn't need to be updated unless you need to add something.

Our yaml file defines the following:
- [**app**](/buildflow/programming-guide/buildflow-yaml#app): the name of our application; this can be updated to any string containing lower-case letters and hyphens
- [**pulumi_config**](/buildflow/programming-guide/buildflow-yaml#pulumi-configure): our pulumi configuration; here we say we have one stack that is stored locally
- [**entry_point**](/buildflow/programming-guide/buildflow-yaml#entry-point): defines how our application is run

```yaml
app: image-classification-gcp
pulumi_config:
  pulumi_home: .buildflow/_pulumi
  default_stack: local
  stacks:
    - name: local
      backend_url: file://.buildflow/_pulumi/local
entry_point: main:app
```

## Initialize your Flow

We define our flow in `main.py` this is the entry point we defined in our `buildflow.yaml` file. `app = Flow(...)` creates our [Flow object](/buildflow/programming-guide/flows) which is a container for all of our business logic and resources.
You'll notice we call a couple methods on our flow object.

- **manage**: this method marks a [primitive](/buildflow/primitives) as being managed. Meaning it can be created, updated, and destroyed by buildflow.
- **add_service**: attaches a service to our flow. A service is a container of [endpoints](/buildflow/programming-guide/endpoints), our service will be used for allowing users to upload images to our application.
- **add_consumer**: attaches a [consumer](/buildflow/programming-guide/consumers) to our flow. A consumer allows us to asynchronously process image uploads meaning it won't block the users request!


```python
from buildflow import Flow, FlowOptions

from image_classification import primitives
from image_classification.processors.consumer import classify_image
from image_classification.processors.service import service
from image_classification.settings import env

app = Flow(
    flow_options=FlowOptions(
        gcp_service_account_info=env.gcp_service_account_info, stack=env.env.value
    )
)
app.manage(
    primitives.bucket,
    primitives.dataset,
    primitives.table,
    primitives.file_change_stream,
)
app.add_service(service)
app.add_consumer(classify_image)
```

## Create your Primitives

In `primitives.py` we define all of the [primitives](/buildflow/programming-guide/primitives) used by our applications. Primitives are resources that a processor may read from, write to, or reference.

<Tip>
    You may have noticed these same primitives were passed into `app.manage` in `main.py` this means they will be created when you run `buildflow run` for the first time.
</Tip>

We define 4 primitives here:

- **bucket**: a [GCS bucket](/buildflow/primitives/gcp/gcs) where we will upload user images to.
- **file_change_stream**: a [GCS File Change Stream](/buildflow/primitives/gcp/gcs_file_change_stream) which sets up notifications for when a file is uploaded to our bucket. This is what triggers our image upload model to be called.
- **dataset**: a [BigQuery dataset](/buildflow/primitives/gcp/bigquery#bigquerydataset), this is a container for our BigQuery table.
- **table**: a [BigQuery table](/buildflow/primitives/gcp/bigquery#bigquerytable) where we will store our image classifications results. 

```python
from buildflow.io.gcp import (
    GCSFileChangeStream,
    BigQueryTable,
    GCSBucket,
    BigQueryDataset,
)

from image_classification.settings import env
from image_classification.schemas import ImageClassificationRow

bucket = GCSBucket(
    project_id=env.gcp_project_id,
    bucket_name=f"{env.gcp_project_id}-image-classification",
).options(force_destroy=True)
file_change_stream = GCSFileChangeStream(gcs_bucket=bucket)

dataset = BigQueryDataset(
    project_id=env.gcp_project_id,
    dataset_name="buildflow_image_classification_walkthrough",
)
table = BigQueryTable(dataset=dataset, table_name="image_classification").options(
    schema=ImageClassificationRow
)
```

## Add your Dependencies

In `dependencies.py` we set up [dependencies](/buildflow/programming-guide/dependencies) that will be used by our endpoints and consumer. Dependencies allow us to precompute and share code between processors. In our case we want to load the model when we start our application before any data is processed.

We do this by defining the `ModelDep` class and add the decorator `@dependency(scope=Scope.REPLICA)` which annotates the class as a dependency that should be created before a [replica](/buildflow/concepts#replicas) starts to process data.

We also define a `BucketDep` which is a [bucket dependency](/buildflow/dependencies/bucket) that allows us to connect to the bucket associated with our bucket primitive we defined in [primitives.py](/buildflow/tutorial#image-classification-primitives-py)

```python
import os

from buildflow.dependencies import dependency, Scope
from buildflow.dependencies.bucket import BucketDependencyBuilder
from imageai.Classification import ImageClassification

from image_classification.primitives import bucket


@dependency(scope=Scope.REPLICA)
class ModelDep:
    def __init__(self) -> None:
        self.execution_path = os.path.dirname(os.path.realpath(__file__))
        self.prediction = ImageClassification()
        self.prediction.setModelTypeAsMobileNetV2()
        self.prediction.setModelPath("mobilenet_v2-b0353104.pth")
        self.prediction.loadModel()


BucketDep = BucketDependencyBuilder(bucket)
```

## Add your Service

In `service.py` we define our actual endpoints that will be called by our users.  First we create a service with `service = Service(...)` then attach endpoints to functions using `@service.endpoint(...)`.

<Tip>
    Remember we attached our service to our flow in `main.py` with `app.add_service`
</Tip>

We define three endpoints here:

- **index**: this endpoint returns a simple HTML page that allows users to upload images.
- **image_upload**: this endpoint allows users to upload an image; then we upload them to our remote bucket. It takes in an [UploadFile](/buildflow/programming-guide/endpoints#other-request-types) which is a file that has been uploaded by a user. We also take in the `bucket_dep` dependency we defined earlier. This allows us to upload the file to our bucket using the [Google Cloud Storage client library](https://cloud.google.com/python/docs/reference/storage/latest/google.cloud.storage.blob.Blob#google_cloud_storage_blob_Blob_upload_from_file).
- **image_upload_results**: this endpoint returns a simple HTML page that displays the results of our image classification model. It does this by querying our BigQuery table and then rendering the results as a table.

```python
from buildflow import Service
from buildflow.requests import UploadFile
from buildflow.responses import FileResponse, HTMLResponse
from google.cloud import bigquery
import pandas as pd

from image_classification.dependencies import BucketDep
from image_classification.primitives import table

service = Service(service_id="image-classification")


@service.endpoint("/", method="GET")
def index():
    return FileResponse("image_classification/processors/index.html")


@service.endpoint("/image-upload", method="POST")
def image_upload(image_file: UploadFile, bucket_dep: BucketDep):
    blob = bucket_dep.bucket.blob(image_file.filename)
    blob.upload_from_file(image_file.file)


def generate_inner_table(row):
    inner_df = pd.DataFrame.from_records(row["classifications"])
    return inner_df.to_html(classes="table-auto", index=False, border=1).replace(
        "\n", ""
    )


@service.endpoint("/image-upload-results", method="GET")
def image_upload_results():
    bigquery_client = bigquery.Client()
    results = bigquery_client.query(f"SELECT * FROM {table.primitive_id()}")
    df = results.to_dataframe()
    df["classifications"] = df.apply(generate_inner_table, axis=1)

    return HTMLResponse(
        df.to_html(
            classes="m-5 border-spacing-2 border-collapse border border-slate-500 table-auto".split(
                " "
            ),
            escape=False,
        ).replace("\n", "")
    )
```

## Add Async Processing

`consumer.py` is where we send our images through the model. We do this by attaching the `@consumer` decorator to our 
`classify_image` function.

<Tip>
    Remember we attached our service to our flow in `main.py` with `app.add_consumer`
</Tip>

Our consumer function takes in two arguments:
- **file_event: GCSFileChangeEvent** - this is the input to our consumer that is generate when ever an image is uploaded to our bucket (whenever our endpoint is called).
- **model: ModelDep** - this is the dependency we defined in [dependency.py](/buildflow/tutorial#image-classification-dependencies-py) that loaded the model.

```python
import datetime
import os
import tempfile

from buildflow import consumer
from buildflow.types.gcp import GCSFileChangeEvent

from image_classification.dependencies import ModelDep
from image_classification.primitives import table, file_change_stream
from image_classification.schemas import Classification, ImageClassificationRow


@consumer(source=file_change_stream, sink=table)
def classify_image(
    file_event: GCSFileChangeEvent, model: ModelDep
) -> ImageClassificationRow:
    with tempfile.TemporaryDirectory() as td:
        file_path = os.path.join(td, file_event.file_path)
        # Download the bytes to a local file that can be sent through the model
        with open(file_path, "wb") as f:
            f.write(file_event.blob)
        predictions, probabilities = model.prediction.classifyImage(
            file_path, result_count=5
        )
    classifications = []
    for predicition, probability in zip(predictions, probabilities):
        classifications.append(Classification(predicition, probability))
    row = ImageClassificationRow(
        image_name=file_event.file_path,
        upload=datetime.datetime.utcnow().isoformat(),
        classifications=classifications,
    )
    print(row)
    return row
```

## Other Files

Some other files we didn't mention that are also in the repo:
- **settings.py** - this loads in a `.env` file for configuring our environment variables
- **schemas.py** - defines our API schemas for request and respones
- **requirements.txt** - defines our python dependencies
- **index.html** - a simple HTML page for uploading images


## Running The Application

<Snippet file="gcp_image_classification.mdx" />
