launchflow-cloud/concepts.mdx, before:

---
title: Concepts
description: "Important concepts and terminology used throughout LaunchFlow"
---

LaunchFlow has three main components to understand. Accounts, Projects, and Deployments. These three components are hierarchical in nature. An account can have many projects, and a project can have many deployments.

<img className="block dark:hidden" src="/images/launchflow-resource-hierarchy-light.png" />
<img className="hidden dark:block" src="/images/launchflow-resource-hierarchy-dark.png" />


|            |                                                                                                                                   |
|------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Account**    | An account is the top level resource in LaunchFlow. When you first sign up for LaunchFlow an account will be created for you.     |
| **Project**    | A project maps to a BuildFlow project defined in your [buildflow.yaml](/buildflow/programming-guide/buildflow-yaml#project). Projects are contained in an account.                     |
| **Deployment** | A Deployment is an instance of a BuildFlow application running inside of LaunchFlow Cloud. Depoyments are contained in a project. |

## Accounts

An account is the top level resource in LaunchFlow. When you first sign up for LaunchFlow an account will be created for you. 
All billing information is tied to your account; all of the usage from your [deployments](#deployments) will be billed to your account.

Inside of an account you can see:
- Your total usage for the month (CPU and $$)
- A list of projects that are contained in the account  

<Note>
    In the near future we will allow sharing accounts with users, and creating multiple accounts.
</Note>

## Projects

A project maps to a BuildFlow project defined in your [buildflow.yaml](/buildflow/programming-guide/buildflow-yaml#project). When you first create a deployment a project will be created with the same project name defined in your buildflow.yaml.

Inside of a project you can see:
- A history of all deployments for the project

<Note>
    In the near future we will allow sharing projects with users.
</Note>

## Deployments

A deployment is created when you launch your BuildFlow application on LaunchFlow cloud.

Inside of a deployment you can see:
- Status of the deployment (running, stopped, etc)
- Logs for the deployment
- Metrics for the deployment
- Previously updated deployments
- The URL that is serving your application
    - This will be a URL ending in `launchflow.app`
    - If you update a deployment it will be deployed to this same URL.

Commit message:

add template pages for new docs

launchflow-cloud/concepts.mdx, after:

---
title: Concepts
description: "Important concepts and terminology used throughout LaunchFlow"
---

LaunchFlow has three main components to understand. Accounts, Projects, and Deployments. These three components are hierarchical in nature. An account can have many projects, and a project can have many deployments.

<img className="block dark:hidden" src="/images/launchflow-resource-hierarchy-light.png" />
<img className="hidden dark:block" src="/images/launchflow-resource-hierarchy-dark.png" />


|            |                                                                                                                                   |
|------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Account**    | An account is the top level resource in LaunchFlow. When you first sign up for LaunchFlow an account will be created for you.     |
| **Project**    | A project maps to a BuildFlow project defined in your [buildflow.yaml](/buildflow/programming-guide/buildflow-yaml#project). Projects are contained in an account.                     |
| **Deployment** | A Deployment is an instance of a BuildFlow application running inside of LaunchFlow Cloud. Depoyments are contained in a project. |

## Accounts

An account is the top level resource in LaunchFlow. When you first sign up for LaunchFlow an account will be created for you. 
All billing information is tied to your account; all of the usage from your [deployments](#deployments) will be billed to your account.

Inside of an account you can see:
- Your total usage for the month (CPU and $$)
- A list of projects that are contained in the account  

<Note>
    In the near future we will allow sharing accounts with users, and creating multiple accounts.
</Note>

## Projects

TODO: update docs on projects

A project maps to a BuildFlow project defined in your [buildflow.yaml](/buildflow/programming-guide/buildflow-yaml#project). When you first create a deployment a project will be created with the same project name defined in your buildflow.yaml.

Inside of a project you can see:
- A history of all deployments for the project

<Note>
    In the near future we will allow sharing projects with users.
</Note>

## Environments

TODO: add docs on environments

## Deployments

A deployment is created when you launch your BuildFlow application on LaunchFlow cloud.

Inside of a deployment you can see:
- Status of the deployment (running, stopped, etc)
- Logs for the deployment
- Metrics for the deployment
- Previously updated deployments
- The URL that is serving your application
    - This will be a URL ending in `launchflow.app`
    - If you update a deployment it will be deployed to this same URL.
